[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Jill Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, our
colleague here at Bloomberg, Ed
Harrison, had interesting newsletter
today. And it's actually something I've
been thinking about a little bit lately,
which is that for all the talk of the AI
boom or the A bubble driving the stock
market, there's no AI pure plays really
that are publicly traded, like Nvidia is
probably the closest, but three years
ago, people were excited because they
were mining Ethereum. Before that, it
was like video games. You know, this was
only an AI company in people's mind for
since late 2022. Google still is, you
know, we know they're all investing a
ton. There's actually no like no AI
company that people are excited about in
the public markets.
>> I mean, I think it's true. Here you have
this thing that a lot of people would
say is revolutionary technology, right?
But you kind of have to decide
>> if you're going to invest in it. Is it
going to be like upstream or downstream?
And there doesn't really seem to be that
much pure play as you say. as our
colleagues in Verma might like to say,
people are investing in the picks and
the shovels, you know, of this gold
rush. Now, I don't think he actually
said that. It's just a million other
people said, but it is. It's pix fun of
completely [laughter]
reasonable commentary. That's what I
say.
>> You know, it turns out incidentally
picks and shovels have been great. You
know, you could have bought Caterpillar
or you could have bought some old school
HVAC company that's providing cooling or
heating or whatever and made a ton of
money. So actually, it turns out, at
least for the last few years, all those
awful cliches have actually been big
money makers and I should not make fun
of them.
>> Well, here's the other thing I would
say. It does feel like everyone kind of
agrees at this moment in time that there
is froth in the market. Maybe it's not a
massive bubble, right? But there's some
froth. everyone is kind of admitting or
saying that
>> you're going to have some companies that
emerge as big winners much like the dot
era and then a bunch of companies that
like actually end up being losers and I
think again like that is consensus at
this point but it doesn't really
necessarily translate into actual
investment because of course the trick
is actually picking the winners and
losers in the market. Yeah,
>> I don't know. It just seems like a weird
point in time where people are like,
"Oh, yeah, AI is great, but we all know
that some of these companies are going
to be massive losers, right?"
>> Right now, they're all kind of being
treated as winners, which is the other.
Anyway, it's a very weird time. We got
to do more episodes on this because it
is sort of the central question for on
whether we're just talking about the
market or talk about the economy, etc.
Someone I've wanted to talk to for a
long time. Earlier this year, he wrote a
uh essay for Colossus called AI Will Not
Make You Rich. It came out in September.
It seems like ages ago. It's very
disappointing because I think a lot of
people really are hoping to get rich on
AI. So, this is a very unwelcome
message.
>> It's also very much a sort of core odd
lots thesis because in the essay he
compares and contrasts AI with
containerization, which is another
>> fascinating. So, let's just get to the
guest. Someone I've wanted to talk to
for a very long time. Someone who
literally is a perfect guest. Longtime
VC, started venture investing in 1997.
also a professor at Columbia Business
School. We're going to be talking to uh
investor Jerry Newman, also the
co-author of a recent book, Founder
Verse Investor, The Honest Truth About
Venture Capital: From Startup to IPO.
Maybe he'll tell us when we'll see some
of these.
>> The bringer of excess Halloween candy.
So, he gets he gets brownie points for
that, too.
>> Literally the perfect guest. Uh Jerry,
thank you so much for coming in.
Thrilled to finally have you here.
>> Thanks. I'm glad to be here.
>> What does that mean? AI won't make you
rich. AI has made people super rich and
it's making people rich every single
day.
>> You know, as an old mentor used to say,
money is not money till it's cash.
>> Okay.
>> So, is anybody really rich yet?
>> Oh, come on. I mean, I Jensen Wong
bought an entire bar in Korea. He's like
bought beer and fried chicken for
everyone. He's right.
>> I think it's smart to cash out early.
>> Okay. Okay. Let's say if he really
believed it, would he be selling his
stock now? I mean,
>> okay. So, what do you mean? Let's talk
about this because you obviously have a
lot of experience. Actually, that brings
another line of question that I want to
get into, but what does that mean? It's
smart to cash out early. When in your
experience, what does that actually
mean?
>> So, look, I I I believe that AI is a
revolutionary technology.
>> Okay,
>> I'm going to put that on the table,
>> which is important to say because not
everyone agrees with that. So, that's
>> Yeah, totally. You know, my I'm on blue
sky and nobody agrees with [laughter]
that. Um, but I I do I think so. And but
there's a difference between value
creation and value capture. Uh, so even
if AI creates a lot of value for
society,
>> Yeah. Who's going to get that value? Is
it going to be the early investors? Is
it going to be the core, you know, the
foundation model companies? Is it going
to be
>> yeah,
>> consumers? You know, I think that's the
question people need to ask.
>> I actually broadly agree with this
thesis when it comes to AI. But maybe
just to clarify the idea here, compare
and contrast this current AI cycle with
maybe previous technological
breakthroughs. And you know, I mentioned
containers. I think a lot of people
aren't used to thinking about boxes as
this major advancement in technology,
but at the time they really were.
>> Yeah, I mentioned containerization and
most of my peers think I'm talking about
Docker. [laughter] So, I'm talking about
shipping containers, right? The big
boxes they put on ships and then they
can move from the ships onto the, you
know, rail cars and the back of trucks.
And this was a revolutionary technology.
I mean, it it changed everything about
the way we live. I don't remember. I'm
probably a little older than you all,
but when I was a kid, my grandmother
used to send up oranges from Florida at
Christmas time, right? Because they were
>> rare. You couldn't just go into a
grocery store and buy them. Now, you can
buy oranges anywhere at any time.
>> People don't really realize how much our
lives have changed because of shipping
containerization, because of these, you
know, global logistics and the
globalization of shipping. Now, this
revolutionary technology, who got rich
from it? I mean generally if you look at
the 1960s say how many people became
wildly rich from technological
innovation can you think of anyone
because I've been asking this question
for years there are people who got rich
in media and whatnot but there wasn't a
lot of technological innovation that
made individual
>> just start like 20 years ago did they
have technology back then
>> right I mean it's I think but this is
the thing right so we talk about
computer technology the information and
computer technology revolution as
technology but obviously there's always
been technology
But only at certain times in this
technological cycle do people seem to
make money as investors and as
I mean I could argue that Mar
got pretty rich off of containerization
like maybe it took a while but even
though the shipping industry is highly
cyclical when they are in the boom
period they make a lot of money.
>> Sure. I mean the existing shipping
companies got very large and made a lot
of money. they got larger and made more
money but is mayor you know who made
money off
>> you're talking about new completely new
entrance
>> yeah so just I mean as background I'm a
venture capitalist right or have been a
venture capitalist for a long time uh
recently retired and I think about
people investing and making money new
companies you know inventors or
entrepreneurs making money not the
existing incumbents making money and I
think that people will make money on AI
uh might be Microsoft making a ton of
money on AI it could be AI you know when
containerization shipping
containerization came found Sealand was
the you know instigator of this and the
founder of Sealand made money primarily
because he sold early right he sold
Sealand to RJRiscoco or sorry it was
just RGR at the time and they thought
they were diversifying which was the big
thing then paid him a lot of money and
and then they drove it into the ground
>> but what did Sealand do what was did
they I actually don't I'm not familiar
with this company at all which I think
kind of speaks to your point but what
was Sealand
>> yeah so so it was a trucking it was
started out as a trucking company um and
the the founder of Sealand was a
trucking entrepreneur And he said, you
know, it's silly. You you go into a
port, your truck sits around all day
while, you know, the long shore men put
a cargo net into a container ship, load
everything into it, pull it out, unload
it, and then lo reload it back into your
truck. This is not efficient. And this
obviously is it's an obvious idea,
right? Just put it all in a box that you
can then put that box on a truck.
>> The best ideas are always the obvious
ones in retrospect,
>> but but the the problem with it was it
was a systems problem, right? The long
shoreman didn't want it. The ports
didn't want it. The port authorities
didn't want it. politicians didn't want
it. Nobody wanted this to happen because
this sort of enormous change would put a
lot of people out of jobs. It would
upset the existing order and it did. I
live in Hoboken and in Hoboken there's a
lot of peers that nobody uses except to
go running on now because back in the
60s it was a long Sherman town and when
I moved there in you know the early 90s
it was empty. it was starting to
gentrify but because all of those people
had lost their jobs and moved out
>> and I suppose like even in the case of
Marisk and I'm sure you know they
obviously have made a lot of money
because the explosion of global trading
volumes and uh containerization is part
of that like it wasn't overnight wealth
right it wasn't like it wasn't not it
was not they people got richer but it
was not like some bubble get-richqu
thing where they suddenly cashed in on
the new thing
>> yeah I mean I suppose whoever owns Maris
may have gotten richer Sure.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's not like you're going to look
at the Forest 400 and see all these
shipping magnates who became suddenly,
you know, enormously wealthy. There are
a few.
>> Wait. Okay. So, if I think about a box,
you know, part part of the
>> We just keep this whole conversation on
boxes. Actually, get to AI at the very
end.
>> Well, one more question.
>> We will be able to discuss AI, but I
think about a box and as you say, it's
sort of an organizational structural
problem like the box itself is not the
huge technological advancement
necessarily. So what exactly was it
about containerization
that prevented it from being
disseminated I guess to new upstarts or
new companies that could actually use
that technology?
>> Well, it was so actually not sure I
understand the question because
containerization became widespread very
quickly,
>> right? But what I mean is like why was
that value seemingly captured by
incumbents versus startups,
>> right? Uh I think because it
disseminated so quickly, right? It's it
was an obvious idea. Everybody who saw
it said okay we need to do this right
everybody who's already in the business
said if this is going to happen we have
to do it we can't be left behind we will
be left behind if we don't do it which
you know I think was also obvious so the
reason nobody else did it first was it
was hard to do it was hard to make
happen and technologies always come in
these you know technological systems if
if they're worthwhile technologies right
so the personal computer didn't change
the world on its own right it changed
the world alongside the internet you
know alongside a bunch of technologies
that formed a system so The hard part
here was building the system, not the
individual technologies.
>> And and this is true, I think, of
computers as well. You know, the first
microprocessors weren't considered
revolutionary. Intel didn't consider the
40004 revolutionary. They considered it
evolutionary. The engineers have said
this. And it wasn't revolutionary until
people put it to use in ways that they
didn't anticipate.
>> Actually, can we go I didn't know that
like I hadn't really thought about that
with Intel that at the time it didn't
feel to them that it wasn't a
revolutionary technology. That's sort of
mind-blowing.
>> It is, right? This is, I think, from
Michael Malone's the Intel Trinity, the
book. You know, he interviewed a bunch
of Intel engineers, and he said, you
know, like they thought they were
building a better chipset to build
pocket calculators or desk calculators,
I should say. So, they had a client,
Busycom, who wanted to build a better
desktop calculator, which calculators
were big back then in 1970ish. And one
of the engineers said, "Well, why do we
keep building custom chipsets for each
different calculator? Why don't we just
build a chipset that we can customize
the [snorts] software and change what it
does?" And Intel was kind of like, eh.
Um, and Bizzycom was like, "Okay, we'll
pay for that." And then Bizzycom
actually tried to back out and they gave
the rights back to Intel. So, Intel
owned the rights to this 4004. And then
they started selling it. And it wasn't
Intel, you know, Intel believed at the
time it was going to be maybe used for
dedicated hardware, you know, like, you
know, hardware controllers, that kind of
thing, not by consumers. So, it wasn't
until people on the outside said, "Hey,
you know, I love these IBM mainframes or
these deck mini computers. I'd like to
have my own, but obviously nobody can
afford that. Why don't I just try to
build my own? Right? So, it was these
kind of outside inventors, these this
permissionless invention. And then it
really the real revolution didn't happen
until this, you know, everybody's like,
"Oh, Intel." It was the 6502 where the
price came down so dramatically that,
you know, Steve Waznjak could walk into
a computer fair, you get some for free,
and go home and build a personal
computer.
>> That's crazy. I wonder who made the
chips for the Commodore 64 computer that
I had.
>> They were 6502s. Those were Intel.
>> No, they weren't Intel. They were Moss
Technologies.
>> Oh, got it. Got it. I don't remember.
>> Those were the cheap ones then.
>> Yeah.
>> Wait, what year was that when you had
>> Well, I had I think I like learned some
basic and did some coding on the I would
have said maybe
1988, 1987, somewhere around there. Made
a few. I miss those days. It's crazy
that I didn't be Can I just say it's I
sometimes when I think about my life
path like how did I not end up like a
tech guy because I was like very into
math. I was like one of those people who
had a computer when I was six or seven.
>> Wait, in 1987 you were coding. You were
seven years old.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I had B I got that my dad
got me this magazine that just it was
very crazy. They was literally just sent
you pages of code and then you just
typed it in and you could like make a
video game. I was doing that at seven. I
could be like one of those like goers
like whose parents gave him a computer
when he was seven. Anyway,
>> it's not too late. It's not too late.
>> Yeah, it isn't too late. Whoa. Maybe it
is too late cuz now we have AI doing all
the [laughter] coding, right?
[music]
Okay. Just so I understand, when it
comes to, I guess, the advantages of the
incumbents to actually monetizing new
technology or benefiting from new
technology, is the moat around their
business the network and their sort of
role in the network or is it the vast
amounts of cash they have and the
ability to sort of roll out massive
investment to capture that value?
>> I think it's the latter, right? So,
anybody can build a foundation model,
right? if you have the money.
>> I mean, the the technology is not
mysterious. It doesn't feel like the
technology is really changing very
quickly anymore. And of course, I don't
have an insight into what's happening
inside of OpenAI, but looking at it over
the past couple of years, it's the same
thing, but slightly better. It's
evolutionary now, right? The first part
was revolutionary and now it's
evolutionary. So, if you wanted to build
one, you could build one. I have friends
who running them on their laptops.
>> Yeah.
>> Very slowly, but it's possible. So now
the question is do you have enough cash
to build the data centers to buy all the
chips to build something that is large
enough that when you train it it does
something useful and it's just a
question of having that
>> the authority in the market to be able
to raise that money.
>> By the way speaking of ideas that were
sort of really obvious that took a while
I'm always blown away that like how long
it took them to put wheels on luggage. I
don't think anyone like made super got
super rich on that. But when I was a
kid, I remember like we had these big
suitcases and that's the most obvious
thing. It took a while. Anyway, I know I
don't think anyone got
>> technology is still not perfected as you
know because you've been in airports
with me and the wheels on my luggage are
broken.
>> But I also I don't think anyone got like
super rich off of wheels. That just
seems like an that was just sitting
there. You know, I want to jump ahead
actually in the conversation a little
bit because I don't want to forget this
point, but this is something I've become
a little obsessed with, which is I've
been meaning to ask a VC about this,
which is that there seems to be this
blurring of private and public markets
in various ways, retail participation,
private markets, etc. For the VC, in my
mind, I feel like the exit was the IPO
or the acquisition, right? So you buy.
Do VCs these days have to think a little
bit more about market timing and selling
early? So someone who is an early
investor in OpenAI or whatever, you
know, in the past they might have just
held and then sell at the IPO or the
acquisition. It's probably not going to
happen in Open AI's case. They're too
big to be acquired. But do VCs and in
your experience these days have to think
a little bit more about this idea of
selling early, timing the exit?
>> Well, I think VC's always had to think
about timing. I you know I I've done
pretty well in VC and I attribute it
entirely to being lucky at starting
investing at the right time. So the
first time around I was starting in 97.
Yeah.
>> Which any any could make money and the
second time around I started in 2007
>> which again it was just or 2008 it was
just an easy time to buy in.
>> But I mean the timing of the sale like
is that something that where in the past
it might have been automatic to exit now
that now was not the case.
>> Yeah. I wrote this thing about VC in the
1980s a long time ago. It's on the on
the blog. You can find it. Um and and
the thing because nobody talks about the
1980s, right? It was there was plenty of
VC in the 80s, but nobody talks about
it. People talk about the 60s and 70s
and the 90s. So I was like, all right,
what happened then?
>> One of the interesting things about it
is there were IPO windows then where,
you know, 1983 the IPO window opened, a
bunch of companies went public, and then
it closed again. And you can see it in
the numbers when people went public. So
people always had to think about timing.
The IPO [clears throat] was obviously
the best exit because you want to sell
to the greatest fool and nobody greater
fool than the public, right? So you look
for the the um IPO window to open. When
you can't, you have to sell it to
somebody else.
>> You know, VCs have this problem of their
limited fund life. So I look at my
portfolio and I'm a really early
investor or have been a really early
investor. So I look at companies and
say, "Oh, it's I invested 10 years ago.
>> They're going to have to sell." You
know, it's the So people look for the
IPO window, but if they can't find it,
they have to sell somewhere else. Well,
how much of the money flowing into AI
startups now is just the expectation
that a bunch of these little companies
are eventually going to get bought by
larger incumbents and basically you're
going to have consolidation and you will
get that exit.
>> I don't think anybody can predict when
the IPO window opens. I mean, I I wish I
could, but I don't think I've never seen
anybody even say they could predict when
the IPO window opens. So I think a smart
VC invests in a company that can become
self- sustaining to some degree
>> and then you wait for the timing to
come. You don't invest and say I'm going
to flip this in three years.
>> Now you know the other problem is VCs
don't invest in all these companies
saying a bunch of them are going to
become valuable. They invest saying one
of these is going to become valuable.
>> Right. The lottery ticket theory.
>> Yeah. Was the power law. Speaking of the
IPO window, I'm never totally satisfied
by a lot of the explanations for the
drop off in IPOs generally. Although I
know there was that law passed in 2001
or what was it 2006 Oxley?
>> Yeah, Sarbain Oxley and I get
>> that law
>> that law that
>> law that everyone hated for a really
long time.
>> I don't it doesn't but then you see like
you know in 2021 there's like a billion
garbage companies went public via spaxs
etc. How much is it about okay there are
some disadvantages to being public
versus there's just so much more private
capital out there such that the
imperative to perhaps ever go public and
it's liquid and their rounds and like
what do you attribute there are these
big companies that are private stripe
but open AI and anthropic that choose to
stay private what do you think the main
reason for that is
>> well it's because they can right I mean
being a public company is no it's no
party right I mean it kind of sucks
being a public company
>> what isn't about it. What sucks?
>> Well, you have to tell everybody what
you're doing every 3 months. Yeah,
that's, you know, and then they come
back and complain about it. So, sorry
I'm being a little facicious, but it is
it's hard to be a public company.
Everybody, you know, anybody who runs a
public company will tell you they spend
a lot of time being a public company if
they're running the company. So, that's
taking away from actually running the
company. Yeah.
>> I think the flip side is you're liquid
and that's yeah, you know, so if you can
stay private, why wouldn't you stay
private? Or if you can go public and
retain control of the company, you know,
like Henry Ford or Mark Zuckerberg, then
why wouldn't you do that? But I think
it's because there is so much latestage
money. This isn't necessarily a good
thing. It's because there's so much
money out there that's not being
invested
>> in more revolutionary technologies
earlier. With all this money being
invested in AI, you may wonder if people
are still going to want to invest
>> latestage Stripe or the analog is Stripe
might be making money now. I'm not sure.
Hm. I know you brought up previous
historic analogies like VC in the 1980s,
but just to focus on the one that
everyone else seems to be focused on at
the moment, which is the dot bubble in
the early 2000s, what are the key
differences you're seeing in terms of
the VC and financing environment now
versus 20 or 25 years ago?
>> I think the key difference is that most
of the money is coming from people who
aren't looking for much risk, right? So
I mean open AI is primarily funded by
bigger companies right most of their
money is coming from large companies
what happens if open AI you know gets
hit by a bus right so Microsoft's had a
bunch of money a whole bunch of big
companies are out a bunch of money I
don't think much happens to the economy
I think which is different than in the
dot bubble where a lot of consumers were
in it a lot of consumers were in it
leveraged right buying on margin or
whatever a lot of people had options
right people employees and and they were
spending the money from their options
before they were liquid. You know, it
was there was a much I think it was a
different dynamic.
>> The wealth effect was a lot bigger.
>> I don't know. This is a I think this is
a contrarian take on your part because
you hear a lot about I mean in two
dimensions. You hear a lot about the
direct wealth effect from people's
exposure to the stock market which AI is
a big part of the story. And then you
also hear about of course the sort of
real economy effects through all of the
spending which we will get into on you
know data centers and the caterpill the
the turbines for the uh gas generation
etc. I think many people would say there
is a lot right now riding on the health
and the sustainability of this
particular sector.
>> So I I I think we can separate the
companies like Microsoft and Nvidia and
are they overvalued because of this?
Maybe. Does it make a huge difference to
the economy? Probably not. I don't think
so. And the companies who are
>> the spending money on infrastructure
like building data centers, building
power generation plants, those things I
think are probably overbuilt or not so
much overbuilt as they are built. And I
think in 10 years you're going to have a
lot of extra compute, a lot of extra
power generation, and people will be
able to use that for other things. It'll
also drive down the price of just using
AI probably.
>> Yeah. The Jevans Paradox bro is gonna be
out back and forth. All right. So AI,
where are we? You talk about cycles and
I think you use a word that I hadn't
eruption. What was the word you used? So
>> tell us your how you see cycles and what
cycle we're in. Right.
>> Right. So a lot of this is based on
Carla Perez's work which is pretty
familiar to the venture capitalists in
your audience. I'm sure she wrote a book
called Technological Revolutions and
Financial Capital where she explains the
dynamics behind the Kondrad waves that
the trumpeter talks about. So she has
this theory about why these happen. And
you look at the industrial revolution,
the second industrial revolution. You
can see these waves of technology,
technological systems happening through
the economy where they kind of start
out, they grow really rapidly and then
there's usually some sort of adjustment,
some sort of bubble bursting and then
things kind of level out and then start
to plateau and then a new one starts.
And and this is people have noticed this
since at least Kendra in 1926. She has a
a mechanism for explaining it and and
her mechanism has these four phases. The
first phase is eruption which she spells
with an I which I think is actually in
the dictionary as a word. I don't know
what the difference is between that and
eruption but it is the part where
>> sounds [laughter] right. So yeah keep
saying that it it is the start. It's
when people have invented something and
it is starting to catch on but it hasn't
caught on yet. There's a lot of people
saying is this the future? Is it not?
You look at personal computers in the 19
late 1970s, early 1980s, you know, maybe
even before IBM got involved. And people
didn't think personal computers were
some people thought they were their
future. And you know, if you look back
at computer history, everybody talks
about the people who did think that.
They don't talk about the other 99.9% of
smart people who said they weren't. This
is the eruption phase where there's a
lot of uncertainty about where this
technology will go. It's starting to
build connections to other technologies,
starting to attract money, attract smart
people because it's interesting and it
it might actually change things. So,
this is the beginning and and I think
the the connection here to AI is people
wonder if we're in the eruption phase of
AI or not. Is this the start of a new
technological revolution?
>> So, which phase are we in?
>> I think we're not. I think we're in I
think this is the end of the information
computer technology wave, the end of the
computer wave,
>> right? I think it is this is the
culmination of the computer wave, right?
I mean, why did we build computers? We
we build computers to help us think
better, right? This is what they're for.
They're they're knowledge machines. So
now we've kind of reached the natural
end stage of what they do. They're
they're smart machines or smarter. So I
think this is not a new technological
revolution. I think it's the end of the
old one. And this is why I compared it
to containerization because the previous
wave was automobiles mass production and
starting in 1915 or so up until 1970 was
the previous wave and containerization
was squarely at the end of that wave
>> and it was really kind of pulling
together the technologies of that wave
into something that increased
productivity.
>> Right. Like the final step of the global
trade and I guess mobility revolution.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Okay. So how do you react as a angel
investor? Are you at the stage where
you're looking for I guess the
downstream winners like the companies
that are going to be able to apply or
use AI most effectively or how are you
actually deploying all these thoughts in
terms of your own investment strategy?
>> I retired.
>> Okay.
>> That's you know I looked around standing
it out
>> and I said look how am I going to invest
in foundation monies right? I I'm I
don't have a billion dollar fund. I
don't think that you know if you look at
the big winners from the early big
winners from globalization the IKEA
right I mean IKEA was a Scandinavian
company until containerization and then
they became a global powerhouse a hugely
successful company but they didn't need
outside money you know Ingvar Comprad I
think he he borrowed like a couple
thousand dollars to start that company
or to to get that company to buy some
inventory he never took outside money
you look at you know Walmart which had
been around already was an incumbent and
used this kind of globalization
variety of products to the stores. They
didn't need outside money to do that.
>> Yeah. I guess if you're IKEA and
suddenly you're flatacking everything
and shipping it in containers and that's
your big innovation, it's a money-saving
technology, right? So, you don't
actually have to raise new capital in
order to flat pack everything.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Okay.
>> They they were already flat packing.
>> Yeah. Your mention of the Walmarts and
Targets of the world was like in your
essay like a sort of very light bulb
thing. It's like, yeah, we I don't know.
I guess we take them for granted, but
they're clear like massive
containerization winners. The scale that
they succeed at is impossible to fathom
in some prior era of
>> Walmart is a logistics company. Change
my mind.
>> Literally, many of you literally
literally literally that. But it doesn't
feel like with AI that the equivalent
has emerged yet, right? We're still at
the age where people are building the
container or deploying. the the company
that exists and is massive that couldn't
exist prior to ad like does not feel
does we haven't seen that yet.
>> Oh, you got to be a little patient.
>> No, no, I get No, I get [laughter] it.
>> Seriously, I mean IKEA so contain the
first containership sailed in I think
1956.
>> Okay.
>> So, when did IKEA become a global
powerhouse? It really wasn't until the
1970s that they started to expand that.
>> This is really important that it might
take a while.
>> Where would you expect it to show up?
Like what industries would you expect?
Because obviously retail existed for a
long time, furniture existed for a long
time, then you get these behemoths. Are
there industries that you think are ripe
to produce
very tortured analogy? The IKEA of the I
AI wave.
>> Well, I think they have to be knowledge
intensive industries, right? I mean,
that's this is what AI is doing, what it
is making more efficient. I mean, I
think there's people have been asking me
like, well, then what should I invest
in? And
>> yeah, tell us. Yeah, this is
>> well this is you know I [laughter] I
think well so
>> give us the answer. I I've been thinking
that myself. But but the answer is
really that as an investor, I don't
decide what to invest in. I evaluate
opportunities that come to me. Um and so
I I have built a box in which you can
evaluate opportunities, right? They have
to look like this. They have to look
like an IKEA. And if IKEA came to you
and said I needed money at that time,
you should have said, "Okay, I can see
how shipping containerization is going
to make you a much larger company where
nobody else seemed to see that." Right?
Certainly the furniture makers in North
Carolina didn't see it.
>> So I think this is the box that you
evaluate things in. And as a a longtime
investor, I'm used to evaluating and I'm
I try not to come up with ideas. You
know, that said, it has to be a
knowledge intensive industry. And I
think something that I I said in the
essay which I wish I had said more about
was
>> the companies that tried to use shipping
containerization to cut costs so they
could increase margins did poorly.
>> Oh, this is key. Say more. Whereas the
companies that that used the
efficiencies and pass the efficiencies
on to the consumers so that they could
become larger became larger. Right? I
mean, this is you look at these people
saying, "Oh, we have AI. We're going to
fire people." I mean, that's I think is
the exact wrong move. And I think it's
probably just every, you know, every new
thing comes along, people are like, "Oh,
it's we're going to fire people." You
know, it's just an excuse. But, but if
you're firing people because of AI,
you're doing it wrong, right? You should
be using AI to say, "I can use my people
to do more. I can grow my company. I can
vary my products. I can take more market
share."
>> So, the value goes to the consumer. And
I guess you capture the value by selling
more, right? More knowledge.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think Walmart never
tried to maximize margins,
>> right?
>> They
>> It was It was volume. Yeah. Okay.
[music]
>> [music]
>> From a consumer standpoint,
why do I care if your workflow
internally at your company is become
more efficient thanks to AI? Either the
product is better or new or something.
You know, I was thinking about this. I
don't mean to like pick on anyone, but
since you made it like Open Door,
Memetock, they had a new CEO. He sent
out this memo. like everyone has to do
start using AI more. It was clearly a
press release in the form of an internal
memo because it got a I think it tweeted
>> waving a flag going AI and it's like
yeah but like
>> does the economics of buying homes via
whatever get better? Like does it
actually make the business better? This
strikes me as very interesting this idea
that like it's not g it's just not that
exciting especially any sort of customer
oriented company which I guess is all
companies. the fact that AI has become
part of their workflow.
>> It's the electric knife effect, right?
So, I don't know that effect. We I just
call it that. But I mean, electric
knives were one of the fastest growing
consumer products in the late 1960s
because people were like, "Oh, we are
electrifying things. Let's electrify the
knife." And within like 3 years, they
were in some massive percentage of
households, like 80% of American
households had an electric knife. And
things like, you know, the blender
didn't get adopted that quickly. But who
has an electric knife now,
>> right? It's I think people take whatever
it is the technology is and say this is
everything. I mean back in you know the
early 2000s late 1990s every company was
an internet company right?
>> Do people walk around saying that's an
internet company now? Are you an
internet company? I mean everybody is an
internet company. Everybody uses it.
It's the baseline. That's I think the
what a revolutionary technology does is
it becomes part of everything. So yeah
you're right. Consumers don't care that
your you know your lawyer is using AI.
They want to make sure that they have
good legal advice.
>> Yeah. Our producer just messaged uh Dash
saying that he had an electric knife.
>> Oh, does he have one?
>> Probably not in the 1960s though, Dash.
>> Dash, do you have one now?
>> Um, my mom might still have one
[laughter]
>> in case that didn't get picked up on the
audio. My mom might still have one.
>> His mom might still have one. Dash, will
you bring it in for us and we can we can
use it as a prop on the table.
>> I'm just imagining like going to a
restaurant though at the time and it's
like, "Oh, we slice your bread with
electric knives and like how unexciting
that would be from a consumer stand. I
don't care, you know.
>> Yeah, I guess that's true. But okay, but
things are different from a shareholder
standpoint, right? And one of the
reasons we see when companies say that
they are using AI, the share price goes
up. It's because shareholders expect all
these easy cost cutting gains. Do we
have any indication that investors are
actually going to be patient and wait
for I guess the value to spread to the
consumer or are they just going to
>> demand basically these fast cuts?
>> Well, and and I mean I'm not a stock
market investor so I'm going to make fun
of stock market investors which is you
know I think they have a very short
>> attention span. Um there's a great quote
in that article about VC in the 80s
where the Wall Street Journal said, you
know, there was beginning of the 80s
there was a craze in anything that ended
with an onyx, right? OC, right? It was
people were right. [laughter]
Um so funny but it was a shortlived one.
Um because it didn't really deliver and
then people were like, "All right, let's
move on and do something else or invest
in something else."
>> So funny. If I were writing a fiction
about the 80s, I would immediately I
would say like applied photonics or
something like that. Yeah. I hadn't
thought about that. That's amazing. So,
I think they want results, but I think
it's too people are impatient. I mean, I
was kidding, but I'm not kidding. People
are impatient. They want to see results
today. I I don't think AI is going to
show you the real revolutionary results
for a decade. Taking AI and just
retrofitting it onto the way you do
things now is only going to add a little
bit to your efficiency. You have to
actually re-engineer everything around
this, change your processes, hire
different people or get, you know, train
people and and then you're going to see
big efficiencies.
>> You got to have prompt training in
schools, right? In high schools or
something. Well, we were talking about
this with Tyler Cowen earlier and he
had, you know, a similar point.
>> Are big comp setting aside, okay, like
yeah, it's not very exciting that a big
company is able to marginally reduce
their workforce. I think a lot of those
are fake. I have a feeling a lot of
these companies are going to have to end
up having to hire people back when these
things don't work or they had nothing to
do with AI and they just want to do
layoffs. Can legacy institutions like
are there some like inherent roadblock
to the degree to which legacy
institutions can incorporate on AI or is
this the type of thing where it's just
going to be entities that didn't exist
before becoming really big household
names?
>> No, I think it will be legacy. I I mean
I think you know Walmart was legacy,
IKEA was legacy. It may not be the names
you expect, right? Sears and Worths
didn't really benefit from shipping
containerization. They ended up going
out of business. I think you have to
have the right attitude of
>> how you're going to utilize the
efficiencies it brings within your
business again to grow your business,
not to yeah, you know, grow your CEO's
salary, right? You have to be spreading
this to the consumers for your company
to be successful.
>> All right. In the intro, Joe made fun of
uh Sid saying something completely
rational. Sid
>> didn't even say it.
>> Yeah, I know. I know. But this is your
joke. An internal joke we have.
>> Right. Okay. So, I'm going to ask the
clichéed question in that theme. Are we
in a bubble?
>> Can you define bubble?
>> No.
>> I think it should be I think the
question should be asked liberally. It's
like I don't
>> Are things overvalued?
>> Are things overvalued? Yes, but there's
a difference between things being
overvalued and a bubble, right? And I
think things are overvalued and I think
there may be a infrastructure bubble. In
the article I wrote for Colossus,
there's a chart of container ships being
built of shipping ships being built and
you can see this huge rise right after
containerization started for a bunch of
years and then it dropped back off
because now people had their ships. But
everybody had to get in at the same
time. Everybody had to go order ships. a
ton of ships were being built and then
the capex, you know, and then they were
like, "Okay, now we have ships."
>> It's a little different with chips
because chips aren't going to last, you
know, however long a container ship
lasts 30, 50 years.
>> But I do think that you're not going to
need as many chips in the future as you
are buying today.
>> Really?
>> Well, I you know, you're going to have
more use of AI probably. There's going
to be more use, but I also would think
they would become more efficient in
compute. That's just the history of
Yeah. compute. Does your definition of a
bubble does that have to include a
buildup of leverage of some sort?
>> Well, I lived through the dotcom bubble,
so yeah, I would say so.
>> Okay. Right. Because
>> And you're not seeing that right now.
>> Well, because I think a bubble popping
has to hurt.
>> And if Microsoft loses a billion
dollars, that doesn't hurt. Doesn't hurt
any I mean, sure it hurts whoever's
invested that money at Microsoft, but it
doesn't hurt so who has which is
everyone who has a 401k.
>> Well, I guess, but I mean, really,
Microsoft loses a billion dollars.
>> Yeah. How much does that affect their
stock price? And even if the stock went
down 10%. That's not not a it's not like
the.com bubble, right? When that popped,
people were laid off. The economy went
to a recession. I mean, it was pretty
deep recession. Took a while to kind of
pull ourselves back out of that.
>> Talk to us more about the dot bubble. I
I try to bring it up in every
conversation because that's when I got
interested in markets. Did a little day
trading in those days when I was in
college, etc. And I just remember that
period very fondly because I was young.
What do people get wrong in their
memories of the dotcom bubble?
>> So, here's the thing I remember most
about the bubble. I was a corporate VC.
I worked for a big company here in New
York, Fortune 500 company. And one of
the companies I had invested in was a
public company and they were raising
more money. This was in January, right
before the bubble popped, right? That
was
>> the bubble. The peak was in March 2000.
>> Then it was January 2000. So, the the
company was selling stock. They said,
"Hey, you know, if you want to buy some
more stock in our company, we'll sell it
to you without the underwriter discount
or before the underwriter discount." So,
we get it at 7% below the market price.
And I went to the CFO of this giant
company and I said, "Hey, we can get a
good deal on this stock. We can get 7%
off, right? Who doesn't love a bargain?"
And he said, "Well, do you think the
company is worth that price?" I said,
"No, nowhere near." He's like, "So, why
are you buying it?" I'm like, "Oh, I
guess that's a good point." He's like,
"So, why would we still own it?" H.
>> And it's like that's also a good point,
right? Which is why aren't we selling
this if it's overvalued? I mean, the
thing that people forget is everybody
knew it was overvalued.
>> They were all just waiting for it to go
up more before they sold.
>> And he said this and I'm like, yeah, I
guess better to sell early than late.
And we ended up selling that entire
position, which luckily paid for the
whole portfolio before the bubble
popped. This is a I mean I think this is
the sort of the difference between John
authors had a really good newsletter I
think about a year ago which is that
>> well you're just uh promoting all the
newsletters
>> I'm doing I'm doing my job to Bloomberg
of like [laughter] but it was basically
like you know you get these situations
like dot where everyone said this is
massively overvalued we all know it we
all it's ridiculous then you have
bubbles that are more like the housing
bubble in which I don't think on any
sort of traditional metrics the banks
were overvalued Dude, I think probably
the PES are probably normal. It's just
that the earning stream was entirely
unsustainable. And I guess that's the
question with AI. Like I don't know,
Nvidia is probably expensive, but like I
don't think people think it's like crazy
stretched on pees. It's more the
question of like is this chip demand at
this pace sustainable? Like are the
earnings estimates realistic?
>> Right.
>> Well, but I mean the economist said the
housing housing was overpriced in 2005,
right? They
>> the homes were Yeah.
>> Yeah. the banks, you know,
>> but the banks got obliterated and it was
not because the ratios of the banks were
completely out of whack. It's just that
the profits could not be sustained by
any stretch at that point. Anyway, I
think it's an interesting distinction.
>> Well, I think there's still an open
question with AI about the network of
relationships that are sort of driving a
lot of this business. Like that's where
I would see some of the maybe 2007208
analogy actually being true. this idea
that like you have this whole system of
funding with banks that's keeping the
whole machine going, but when the
collateral that's underpinning that
system suddenly loses value, the whole
thing falls apart.
>> You could maybe make a sort of similar
argument for AI where you have this
network of companies that are sort of
investing and selling to each other. if
the value of the underlying asset, which
I guess would be compute in this case,
starts to fall really precipitously, the
whole thing kind of collapses.
>> But I'm kind of stretching that.
>> It's it's amazing to me how much of the
lessons you we learned in the '90s.
People just don't know or remember. I
mean, the whole blank check company
thing, we did that in 1999, right? And
it all fa all the spacks, right? And it
totally failed. And then people did it
again. It's was crazy to me. And I think
this kind of circular Yeah, I know,
right? Yeah. Um, and it's still a bad
idea. And I think the the circular
revenues also happened in the '90s and
that was also a bad idea. You'd think
that people could see that and factor
that out. God, I have so many questions.
Why are specs a bad idea? On paper, it
seems like a totally fine way to go
public. In practice, it only seems like
total garbage companies take that route.
>> Yeah. It feels self- selecting, right?
>> Yeah. Well, of course, because the the
the way they're structured to get people
to invest in a company you don't even
know what it is yet, it means that there
it's not great for the companies, right?
You get a ton of
>> Yeah. Oh, right.
>> Right. That's just leakage.
>> Wait, just explain the mechanism again.
>> So people, you know, if you put money
into a spa, when they decide they're
going to do a deal, you're allowed to
take your money back out of the spa. I
can't remember all the details. Right.
Um, right. So, if you're like, well,
it's a good deal. I'll leave my money
in. But if you're the company being
acquired, you don't know if you're going
to be acquired or not because people
could take their money out. So just why
wouldn't if you could go public on your
own, you would prefer to do that. So by
definition, the spaxs are buying
companies that couldn't go public on
their own.
>> Right. Right.
>> Is VC investing fun again? I got the
impression like two years ago everyone
was pretty pretty depressed and I'm
quite sure we did a few episodes on it
at the time, but are people having fun
again?
>> Well, again, I retired so no. Um,
nobody's having fun. I wasn't having
fun. I think if you have a billion
dollars, it's probably fun.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, if you're doing the big deals,
I think if you're
>> in AI, it's fun. If you're doing
anything else,
>> it should be fun if you're doing
something besides AI, right? Because now
everybody's distracted by the shiny new
thing. You can go find companies that
are interesting to you and invest. The
problem is you have to worry about what
happens a year from now when they need
the next round. Uh, is anybody going to
be paying attention? I I think it's
probably pretty hard to be an early
stage investor unless you're investing
in AI.
>> And if you're investing in AI, you're
probably not writing small checks at low
valuations
>> and you can't control the outcome at the
end. You can only control what you do at
the beginning. So,
>> you probably won't be making money.
>> I have this theory that actually nobody
likes bubbles or booms even. But let's
say bubbles in part like if I missed it,
I'm upset because someone else is
getting rich. If I'm in it, I'm like
really anxious. Am I gonna like I'm
anxious about two things. I'm anxious.
Am I gonna sell at the right time? I'm
also kicking myself for not investing
more. No matter how much I invested, I'm
upset with myself for not having
invested more. Is that right? This is
just my impression when I read history,
which is that everyone, even in the boom
towns, there's like this like den of
like stress underneath. Is that true or
am I just am I just fantas projecting
how my own neurosis from birth onto
other
>> Well, everyone thinks they're going to
time it right. It's fun. The bubbles are
fun, especially if you're young and
stupid, right? I, you know, there's the
New Yorker cartoon, I want my bubble
back, right? Um, the flip side is it is
stressful. I remember, well, it's
stressful both after obviously I I still
have my Razerfish stock certificate. It
I had it certificated because I couldn't
sell it for anything, you know, for any
real money. And that at one point had
been worth quite a bit of money again. I
remember what did that company do? Is it
like an ad network or something?
>> No, no, they built websites. This is,
you know, I remember they were great. I
mean, they were a great company when
nobody else knew how to build websites.
>> Some friends who worked for Razer Fish,
even as like recently as like 2010, they
sort of hung on for a little [music]
while. Jerry Newman, thank you so much
for coming on OddLots. Been wanting to
chat with you for a long time and uh
really appreciate you joining us.
>> Yeah, thank you both.
>> [music]
>> Tracy, I love that conversation. There's
a lot there. I mean, obviously, I like
anytime we can talk about the '9s
bubble, but I had never really thought
about or any come anywhere close to
thinking about the AI analogy with
containerization. It's a little
embarrassing because that's such a core
topic for us. We've talked about boxes
so many times, but to sort of reorient
my thinking of AI in these terms is very
helpful.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, this just kind of
proves the point that no one thinks of
containerization. I mean, I said before
it is a technology story and one of the
reasons I do think of it that way is cuz
I read that book, The Box, which is
really good, but no one thinks about it
as an investment story because of the
reasons that Jerry just laid out.
>> Yeah. No, that's really interesting. And
you know again like it does feel at some
point that non- tech businesses non AI
businesses eventually someone hopefully
for the industry like makes a lot of
money actually using these tools because
we've been in the picks and shovels
phase or whatever but at some point
maybe it's an existing health care
company or etc. or maybe it's a new kind
of law firm or an incumbent law firm and
some of that where it's like okay we
have found a way to use this technology
in a manner that is very profitable
productive and market expensive.
>> So to me that's the key thing. So the
key thing is it's not that we're going
to use this technology necessarily to
cut costs and boost profit margins. It's
that we will actually expand our
customer base and make it up in volume
by selling more knowledge. You know,
it's a interesting thing that Jerry said
and he put into words something that I
hadn't really thought about before, but
this idea about being at the end of this
sort of computer revolution.
>> And there is something about AI
specifically where people it's like
>> and it can't really literally be this
where it's like, well, this is the last
technology, right? Cuz
>> Oh, no. cuz we're going to get robots
>> right like and I don't know if like
other booms or technological revolutions
had this feeling where it's like this is
the last one theoretically if you get
AGI or whatever maybe robots you don't
need any further technological
innovation etc it creates I think a very
weird
>> uncomfortable dynamic but the idea of AI
is the end of what we do with computers
rather than the start of like something
genuinely new like that actually like
snaps into place a lot of thoughts for
me
>> once we invent God, we're done.
>> Yeah, let's leave it at God. We're done.
Everything else takes care of itself.
>> Yeah. All right. Shall we leave it
there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracee
Aloay.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Jerry Newman. He's ga Newman. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Armano Bennett at Dashbot and Kalebrooks
at Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content,
go to bloomberg.com/odlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics with fellow listeners in
our Discord, discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk to you about why you're not
going to get rich from AI, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite [music] podcast platform. And
remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely [music] adree. All
you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[music]
>> [music]